[synthetics] Document migrating from the Synthetics Integration (#2445)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/observability/synthetics-migrate-integration.asciidoc

should make a plan to migrate existing monitors to use either *Project Monitors* or the *{uptime-app}*:

* With Elastic *Project Monitors*, you write tests in an external version-controlled project
  and use a CLI tool to push monitors to the {stack}.
* The *{uptime-app}* is an application in {kib} that you can use to configure and create
  monitors using a user interface.

[discrete]
[[synthetics-migrate-integration-compare]]
= Compare approaches

Below is a comparison of how you used the {agent} integration to create
monitors and how you'll use the {uptime-app} or projects to create monitors:

|===
| | {agent} integration | Projects or the {uptime-app}

| *Supported monitors*
| Supported both lightweight and browser monitors
| Supports both lightweight and browser monitors

| *Where monitors run*
(<<synthetics-migrate-integration-location,read{nbsp}more>>)
| You had to run monitors on your infrastructure.
a| You can run monitors on both:

* Your infrastructure using <<synthetics-private-location,private locations>>
* Elastic's global managed infrastructure

| *Where you configure monitors*
a| You could configure monitors using:

> * A user interface in {kib} (all monitors)

Author: ```suggestion
* A user interface in {kib} (all monitor types)
```

* Code in an external, version-controlled project (browser monitors _only_)
a| You can configure monitors using:

* A user interface in {kib} (all lightweight monitors, browser monitors via inline script only)

> * Code in an external, version-controlled project (all monitors)

Reviewer: Same as above, maybe _all monitor types_?

Author: ```suggestion
* Code in an external, version-controlled project (all monitor types)
```

   . Create the monitor.

Find more details in <<synthetics-get-started-ui>>.
|===

[discrete]
[[synthetics-migrate-integration-location]]
= Where monitors run

If you want to continue hosting on your infrastructure, you will need to create a
private location before creating monitors.

// Is this true?
If you have already have an {agent} running using `elastic-agent-complete`,
you can <<synthetics-private-location-add,add it as a new private location>>
in the {uptime-app}.

To create a new private location from scratch, follow all instructions in
<<synthetics-private-location>>.

Alternatively, you can start hosting on Elastic's global managed infrastructure.
With Elastic's global managed testing infrastructure, you can create and run monitors in multiple
locations without having to manage your own infrastructure.
Elastic takes care of software updates and capacity planning for you.

[discrete]
[[synthetics-migrate-integration-projects]]
= How to use projects

// Is this true?
If you already have an external project you were adding via a ZIP URL
you can use the same project, but you will have to make some changes:

. Update to the latest version of `@elastic/synthetics`.

> . Configure monitors with code instead of in the UI:

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand this.  As this is in the section about ZIP URLs, won't that mean they will have already defined them in code, as opposed to the UI?

Author: Yes I see that this is confusing. With the integration you _had_ to configure all the non-journey details (like the name of the monitor, the frequency at which it runs, throttling options, screenshots, etc) in the UI right? And with project monitors now you configure all those details in the code itself instead of in Kibana. If that's correct, do you have any thoughts on how to make that clearer?

Reviewer: Ah yes, of course, thanks for the clarification.

I wonder if it would help to give some context here, such as `Configure monitors (such as the frequency) with code instead of in the UI` (or is this too wordy?)

To @andrewvc's [point](https://github.com/elastic/observability-docs/pull/2445#pullrequestreview-1205581794), it's also worth adding a bullet between the current (1) and (2) that describes the need to `npm @elastic/synthetics init...` the folder too.

   . Configured the monitor.
   . Created the monitor.
a| . Go to the *{uptime-app}* in {kib}.
   . Go to *Monitor Management*.
   . Click *Add monitor*.
   . Configure the monitor.
   . Create the monitor.

Find more details in <<synthetics-get-started-ui>>.
|===

[discrete]
[[synthetics-migrate-integration-location]]
= Where monitors run

If you want to continue hosting on your infrastructure, you will need to create a
private location before creating monitors.

// Is this true?
If you have already have an {agent} running using `elastic-agent-complete`,
you can <<synthetics-private-location-add,add it as a new private location>>
in the {uptime-app}.

To create a new private location from scratch, follow all instructions in
<<synthetics-private-location>>.

Alternatively, you can start hosting on Elastic's global managed infrastructure.
With Elastic's global managed testing infrastructure, you can create and run monitors in multiple
locations without having to manage your own infrastructure.
Elastic takes care of software updates and capacity planning for you.

[discrete]
[[synthetics-migrate-integration-projects]]
= How to use projects

> If you already have an external project you were adding via a ZIP URL
> you can use the same project, but you will have to make some changes.
> 
> First, upgrade the existing project to use the latest version of 
> `@elastic/synthetics`:

Author: **Option 1: Warn users about the impact of running `init` on an existing project**

```suggestion
If you already have an external project you were adding via a ZIP URL
you can use the same project, but you will have to make some changes.

First, upgrade the existing project to use the latest version of 
`@elastic/synthetics`.

[IMPORTANT]
====
*Upgrading your project using these instructions will overwrite your existing synthetics configuration file (`synthetics.config.ts` or `synthetics.config.js`) and `package.json` file.*

If you have customized either of these files in your existing project, be sure you
have the current version saved in version control or create a fresh project using
`npm @elastic/synthetics init` with a path to a new directory instead of the path to
existing project. Then, manually transfer:
* Any synthetics configuration options to the new synthetics configuration file.
* Any dependencies, scripts, or other configurations to the new `package.json` file.
====
```

> . Run `npm install -g @elastic/synthetics@latest` to install
>   the latest version of the CLI.
> . Upgrade your existing project to use new project settings:
> .. Run `npm @elastic/synthetics init <path-to-existing-project>`.
> .. Respond to all prompts provided by the CLI.
> . Review updated files and directories, including:
> .. `journeys/` will contain sample journey code.
>    Move existing journey files into this directory.
> .. `synthetics.config.ts` will contain updated default settings
>    needed for the upgraded project.
> .. `package.json` will contain updated NPM settings for your project.
> .. `.github/` will contain sample workflow files to use with GitHub Actions.

Author: **Option 2: Instruct users to create a fresh project instead of "upgrading"**

```suggestion
. Run `npm install -g @elastic/synthetics@latest` to install
  the latest version of the CLI.
. Create a new project:
.. Run `npm @elastic/synthetics init <new-directory>`.
.. Respond to all prompts provided by the CLI.
. Review the generated files and directories, including:
.. `journeys/` will contain sample journey code.
   Move existing journey files into this directory.
.. `synthetics.config.ts` will contain updated default settings
   needed for the upgraded project. Manually copy over previous configuration options that are compatible with the latest version of Elastic Synthetics.
.. `package.json` will contain updated NPM settings for your project. Manually copy over previous dependencies, scripts, and other pacakage manager configuration options.
.. `.github/` will contain sample workflow files to use with GitHub Actions.
```

= How to use projects

If you already have an external project you were adding via a ZIP URL
you can use the same project, but you will have to make some changes.

First, upgrade the existing project to use the latest version of 
`@elastic/synthetics`:

. Run `npm install -g @elastic/synthetics@latest` to install
  the latest version of the CLI.
. Upgrade your existing project to use new project settings:
.. Run `npm @elastic/synthetics init <path-to-existing-project>`.
.. Respond to all prompts provided by the CLI.
+
[NOTE]
====
To ensure that your project will work with the latest version of Elastic Synthetics,
the CLI will create a new configuration file on `init`, but you will see a prompt
asking if you would like to continue before overwriting an existing configuration file.
====
. Review updated files and directories, including:
.. `journeys/` will contain sample journey code.
Move existing journey files into this directory.
.. `synthetics.config.ts` will contain updated default settings
needed for the upgraded project.
.. `package.json` will contain updated NPM settings for your project.
+
[NOTE]
====
If there is already a `package.json` file in the directory, it will only

> modify the existing file if no `test` or `push` script is defined.

Reviewer: I know this came from https://github.com/elastic/synthetics/pull/688 but I am not sure it provides enough information, or is clear in describing the behaviour, or what a user should do.

Similarly, I don't think we refer to this beaviour anywhere else like https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/observability/current/synthetics-get-started-project.html

@vigneshshanmugam can you provide clarity here?

Reviewer 2: We need to modify it as, If there is already existing `package.json`, 
1. Synthetics agent will not create a new `package.json` file
2. Instead only adds the `@elastic/synthetics` library to the dependencies if its not already present, and modifies the `test/push` script if not present already.

> [NOTE]
> ====
> If there is already a `package.json` file in the directory, it will only
> modify the existing file if no `test` or `push` script is defined.
> ====

Author: Is this clearer @paulb-elastic @vigneshshanmugam ?

```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
If there is already a `package.json` file in the directory when you run `init`,
the synthetics agent will _not_ create a new `package.json` file.
Instead it will modify the existing `package.json` file to:

* Add `@elastic/synthetics` library to the dependencies if it's not already present.
* Add a `test` and `push` script if they are not already present.
====
```

Reviewer 2: Looks good to me 👍🏽
